---
title: Winter Training 2014 - A Revelation of God and God's Building as the Goal of His Salvation, Provision, and Revelation 
layout: post
---

## Winter Training 2014 - Crystalization-Study of Exodus

### Msg 1  - A Revelation of God and God's Building as the Goal of his Salvation, Provision, and Revelation

*Hymns: #602, #839*
RK

*Prayer*
... May your goal ... be the goal of our life with you. Lord, may we realized that there is a lurking enemy. We remind him that you have judged him and his realm... Let my people go that they may serve Me; Lord, release the whole recovery to serve you. ...With this in mind, bless this training. Gain in each one the word you want to gain in each one of us. ...Each one is dear to you... You became a man to tabernacle among us and in Resurrection you enlarged this tabernacle. Speak to us, from within the cherubin; speak what is in your being. Release it, speak it, impart it, work it out, to the glory of the Triune God.

*Opening Word*
I don't see how the CS study of Exodus can be covered in less than three trainings. 
We are a kingdom of priests.
The outline is lengthy and detailed for a reason. The burden and leading are on certain crucial matters related to God and God's goal as unveiled in this book.

*The Revelation of God* - **Two lines** that I need to share in faithfulness and obedience to the Lord within. (1) **Our consideration of God** is under the greatest requirement of the first commandment. "You shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart and from your whole soul, and from your whole mind, and from your whole strength." - Mark 12:30 (Deut.) If we do not love the Lord our God, how can we have the heart to consider even in an initial way 14 aspects of...

* We seek to know the Lord b/c we love him.
* * M.E. Barber thanked the Lord for commanding use to love Him.
*
* * Concerning the Lord Jesus Himself, He is the love of God [in] man. he is the only one that could stand before the Father and the enemy and say that He loves God from His whole heart. 
*
* (2) **Pharaoh...** Many saints need to be released to hold a feast to Jehovah in the wilderness.
* * God made a requirement to Pharaoh through Moses - six times - "Let my people go that they may serve me and hold a first to me in the wilderness." They had been serving Pharaoh and needed to be released to serve Jehovah.
* * Before the Lord's face I must pose this question for us to consider honestly, soberly, in the presence of the Lord - "Do you think that ll the saints in all the churches in the Lord's recovery serve God?" Not everyone who is a believer, not everyone who is in the church serves God. Yet the Lord said that this was the aim, initially, of the exodus. If every believer served God, why would the Lord Jesus utter these words as part of the constitution of the kingdom of the heavens - No one can serve two masters for either he will love the one and hate the other or hold to one and despise the other; you cannot serve both God and mammon. Can every brother and every sister in the Lord's recovery stand before the Lord and the enemy and say, "I serve God alone; I do not serve mammon."
* **mammon** is an aramaic word meaning wealth, riches. wealth or riches stands in opposition to God robbing them of their service to God. If everyone served God then why would a brother serving in a church say to a brother courting a sister - 'you are serving full-time; if you want to marry my daughter you have to stop serving full-time, get a graduate degree and improve yourself. Why would believing parents be the first to oppose young saints who want to come to the training.
*
* Only the Lord knows to what extent the Lord's recovery in the affluent countries are ruled by mammon and how many are serving God.
*
* In certain parts of the world some are imprisoned and others martyred. In other places, the creeping in of the compromise of the de facto of trying to serve two masters. So we repeat to satan, based on God's Word, 'Let my people go!' that they may serve me... God wants to hold a feast with us in the wilderness like they have never had. "Let them go that they may server Me"
*
* The priesthood is a realm in which everyone serves God ...
*
* May the Lord emancipate the entire Recovery that we may all serve God in the wilderness.
*
* *Outline*
*
* * I.A.1. In our culture, the ungodly and the atheist are increasingly aggressive; we affirm in their face Heb. 11:6 - he who comes forward to God must believe that He is. We are the testimony of the reality that **God is**. This is one of the commandments given to the whole human race - you must believe that God is and that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Not believing this is the criterion for judgement.
* * I.A.2-3. Abraham was probably the first Hebrew - a river crosser (probably the Euphrates). If you have never crossed a river maybe the Lord will encounter you this training and show you a river that He intends you cross.
* * I.A.4-5. I encourage you to do a 'God reading' of Exodus and highlight every reference to God, who He is, what he does, etc. You will notice that He is the subject of this Book. He is a speaking God.
* * I.A....8. We need to know this aspect of God and His sovereignty - God hardened Pharaoh's heart yet Pharaoh hardened His own heart. He will not be able to stand at the great white throne and be excused b/c God hardened him; he also hardened His own heart. We need to know God and His sovereignty.
* * I.A.9-11 he infuses us even when we do not realize it.
* * I.A.12 The covenant was an engagement contract. God wooed his people.
* * I.A.13 God is the processed and consummated God. Since He is immutable how can he change? God dwells in unapproachable light, yet the same chapter in Exodus says that Moses spoke to God face-to-face. The truth has two aspects. God is immutable in his essence. Yet the Word became flesh; the last adam became the last giving spirit. Are these not changes? 'Before Abraham was, I am.' Unless you believe that 'I Am' you will die in your sins. When they sought to arrest Him, when he said 'I Am', they fell back on the ground. Yet he became living bread. This is the balanced two-fold truth in the Bible concerning God in His economy.
* * I.A.14.B.1-2 - We never base a teaching on just one verse. 1 Cor. Paul says that everyone in Israle was baptized in water and the cloud (Christ and the spirit). From 1 Cor. 12:13 - we were baptized in one Spirit. The Spirit in whom we were baptized is the realization of Christ who is the embodiment of God. Putting these verses together with the verses in Exodus where we see the cloud fighting against the egyptians, we see this as a type of the Triune God.
* * I.A.B.3-5. The rock Christ; the water - the Compound Spirit. The lampstand's gold - God the Father, the shape, the Son, the lamps - the Spirit. In Exodus once the tabernacle is all set up and approved by Moses; when it was erected a cloud covers it and the glory of God fills it: the tabernacle, the cloud, and the glory. There is one chapter in the NT that unpacks and explains and interprets Exo. 40, showing the tabernacle, something corresponding to the cloud and the glory (John 1) - The word became flesh and tabernacled among us (v.14); John the baptist saw the Spirit abiding on Him (v.32), and we beheld His glory, glory as of an only Son from the Father.
* * II. The central thought of this long section is also the divine thought in the book of Exodus: **God's building is the goal of His salvation, provision, and revelation** (crystal) [This msg is about **God** and **the goal**]. 
*   One of the lacks in christianity today is ignorance concerning God's goal. Why would there be such an immense number of books every year on *heaven.* God's goal is not to save the believers and whisk them off to heaven. God's goal is *God's building.* 
*     
*     There were physical structures in the OT that were compositions of various materials brought together. The *tabernacle* and *temple* are symbols of the building that God desires. With both there was glory - God Himself expressed. *building is the corporate expression of God in Christ.* 
*     For the building to be God's goal means for God to have a glorious corporate expression of Himself. This is why we were redeemed, saved, born again, called; this is why we consecrate and why we are in the church life; this is why we aspire to overcome.God's goal is related to the desire of His heart.
*
*     After Moses had been prepared for 80 years, he could enter into glory and see in Exo. 25 what was on God's heart - to build Him a dwelling place. This is what was on God's heart. He showed Him a pattern and commissioned Him to build everything according to the pattern. Yes, there is salvation in the passover, there is the provision, there is revelation. But we cannot stop here; it's not the goal. I bear witness to you that a great, intrinsic, deep change takes place in your being when you open to the Lord as much as you can and you pray to Him, "Lord cause the desire of your heart to become the desire of my heart; may your goal become my goal." We need to do certain things humanly - train, get married, have a family, work diligently at my job; but this is not the goal. The divine revelation is not for that. I have to tell you young adults - I cannot relate to the notion of career as if there is some path to glory in the world that is your goal. We only know to live here under the divine revelation for God's goal. We breathe for this; everything is for this. Everything is moving in this direction. 

However we examine it, the building is the goal.

* II.A.1-3
* * II.B.1-3
* * II.C.1-3 what would happen if all those in the Recovery, especially the younger generation, saw the goal of God's salvation; he redeemed us, saved us, brought us out of Egypt, the wilderness, the rock, the manna... everything is for this - God's dwelling place on earth.
* * II.D. The way this happens is by God's mingling with us.
* * II.D.1. This is why there cannot be independence, individualism. Build me Lord with other saints; independence ne'er allow." Let the memories of the past go; for God's building I give **all** that Thou may be glorified. may this echo in the Lord's Recovery again, in saint after saint. May we all pray and be consumed with 'For your building I give all. My time, future, possessions, relationships, intellect, education, potential... I give it all to you. Lord I will hold nothing back. Your goal is my goal. The desire of your heart is the desire of my heart.
* * II.D.2 .. The breaking and all the dealings are for the building. Jacob was broken for Israel. It makes a difference if we can see this.
* * II.D.3.a-c It would be sad to see someone who spent decades, especially in the Lord's recovery - you were saved, heard hundreds of messages, countless sessions of morning revival, but you were never built up. How sad. How crucial it is that you grow with some level of maturity, so that we grow that we can shepherd others to bring them to where we have been. **The building is the goal**
* * II.E.
* * II.F. The direction of the Lord's shepherding in Psalm 23 - you may be in green pastures and beside the waters... perhaps you have to walk again by the valley of the shadow of death and be bewildered why this loss? And arrive at the battlefield... eventually you realize the goal. It makes a difference when your inner being is lined up with God's goal - ** The building is the goal**
* * II.F.1-2 It may be that a whole generation needs **II.F.2.a-b** This is hour choice - The world of the building. You may say that you are in the church (in a certain way, on your own terms, under certain conditions, with particular assumptions.) It's the building that is vs. the world. God doesn't force, but the spirit will bring you to a basic decision; what are you here for? The world or God's building? As an illustration - A young brother feels he needs to go to law school (God must need a lot of lawyers). If I had the ground I would ask, what for? Who's goal is it? Is it really yours? Let's face the fact - no one can serve two masters; we cannot straddle this gap. Is your goal to be something in the world or God's building. There was a brother and I in the lead 20-some years ago. I love him. He had such a tender heart but a divided heart. He was also ambitious for world success. He had gotten hired by a prestigious company. In his case his ambition exceeded his ability and he didn't make it. Trying to make it happen, he lost his marriage and his family. **No one can serve two masters.** Elijah challenged the people - how long will you continue with two opinions; how long will you straddle two thoughts - is Balaam God or is Jehovah God? What direction are you taking? You cannot have both. There are so many saints who are patterns to us in Taiwan and the US - they were doctors but they intrinsically for God's purpose. One brother retired as a professor and began to serve, but there was no change in his being.
*
* - Some of you have a choice to make to go against your family tradition - be saved but don't be extreme about it. yet we have to say in faithfulness; you cannot serve to masters; you cannot have two goals. Be willing to be rescued. I don't want to work 90 hours a week for a law firm even though they give me 120K; I want my life to count for God's goal.
* * II.F.4 Moses could not pick his favorite color; the pattern was given to him as a full and complete type of the individual christ as the head and the corporate Christ as the Body with many details for the church life.
* * II.F.5 In Haggai there was a drought. God said he called for the drought because of His house that lied waste. You all run to your own house; but if you would return to the building of my house the blessing will come. Saints eventually reach dryness, emptiness, weakness - the reason is b/c up to now, unbeknownst to you it all has been about you and your spiritually and your need. How sad that Paul, in recommending Timothy would have to say that he only had Timothy that was like souled caring for God's things. 
*
*  * How many among the saints actually care for God's house? There has to be a change.
*
*   * We go through certain costly things and we realize that they are for God's building; then we heave it all to Him. Lord, everything we have gained, we offer up to you. then the Lord will give you more and then you can offer up more; all for the building. 
*   * II.F.6 I have been in meetings and saints make 'consecrations' that are not such; a consecration is when you offer yourself to God; the consecration here is to present the precious things that you have gained, for God's building. **Consecration is our consent to God for God's building.** The Lord is waiting for us to release ourselves to Him.
*   * II.F.7 This is the direction of our whole christian life; we were dead in Egypt under the authority of darkness without God and without hope, in the world. But redemption and salvation came; provision and revelation came and we begin our journey. The goal is God's dwelling place.
*   * II.G.1-3
*
*   May the Lord be merciful to us to receive the supply and to receive his goal as our goal, that we would all go in the same direction - God's building and dwelling place.
